[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I wasn't healthy as a child.
Neither really were
anybody in my family,
there was a lot of
weight problems.
I wasn't overweight ever,
but I had polio as a child,
was in a wheelchair for a time.
The doctors told me,
this is permanent.
I honestly hated it.
I felt really restricted.
Gradually, however, the feeling
and movement returned to my legs
slowly, over time, more the
right leg than the left.
But I was pretty
frail, and I limped.
When I was 21, my left leg
was three inches shorter
than the right one,
not very strong.
And I couldn't put a
lot of weight on it.
I definitely favored, I still
favor my right leg a lot.
At that time, I was gimpy.
And I remember meeting with
a doctor when I was 21.
And he said, look, your bones
are-- your growing years
are over.
So your left leg is just going
to always be that much shorter.
And you're just going to have
to learn to live with this.
Well, and back when
I was much younger,
another doctor had said,
this is polio's permanent.
You'll never walk.
He was wrong.
I thought this guy
could be wrong too.
Doctors don't always
know everything.
And when I changed my
life, when I walked away
from Baskin-Robbins,
when I stopped
trying to be the person
my dad wanted me to be
and started to try to be the
person my soul wanted me to be.
I started, instead of trying
to please him always, started
to try to be in alignment
with my own higher power
and what it needed
and wanted of me,
started to be true to myself.
And I changed how I ate
completely, shifted totally
from the standard American
diet to a very, very
healthy whole foods,
plant-based diet,
and began to exercise,
and do therapy, and do
yoga, and meditate, do things
that seemed to matter to me.
My left leg grew.
It didn't grow right away.
It took some years.
But it is now, eventually it
became as long as the other one.
I eventually became a runner.
I eventually became
a marathon runner.
a triathlete.
And I had to work really hard
at those things, harder than
if I hadn't had the polio.
But I did it.
And I did it because
I loved being vital.
I loved being alive.
And I'll tell you what I learned
from being in a wheelchair,
even though it was
only for a short time,
compared to what was expected.
I want to move.
And when I see people
who have legs that work,
living sedentary lives, sitting
and then sitting and then
sitting and then sitting, and
then when they could move,
sitting some more, I think,
oh, my God, you can move.
Your legs work, and
you don't use them.
You might as well have polio.
It's a self-imposed
sedentariness.
Because I love to move, and
for me, movement is life.
And I suppose I value it
more than I would have if I
hadn't had that restriction.
But I certainly
also feel that when
people are ill and have
limitations, they need help,
they need care.
They don't need to be shunned.
They don't need
to be stigmatized.
to be objectified.
They're people.
When I see somebody
in a wheelchair,
if I want to talk
to them, I sit down.
Because I want to be on
the same level as them.
If I see someone who is ill,
my heart goes out to them.
I don't know why all of
us don't have compassion
for the people who are afflicted
or people who are disadvantaged
in whatever way.
It seems to me that the
measure of a society, it's
how it cares for those who don't
have all their powers, who need
help.
And by that measure, our
society is failing in many ways.
I'd like to see us succeed more.
That, to me, would be success.
And I'm doing what I can
toward that direction.
What was developing
when we were living
in a log cabin in the woods
was a tremendous awareness
of the healing power of
the way we were living
and the way we were eating.
I experienced that in myself,
primarily, to begin with.
My leg grew.
I started to run.
I started to enjoy my body.
We started to dance.
I did a lot of yoga, and
I got very good at it.
I started out very stiff.
I began to enjoy my body in a
way I never, never had before.
And I attributed some of
that to the change in diet.
We had been eating,
before then, pretty much
the standard American diet,
with a lot of ice cream.
And when we moved to the
island and to the cabin,
we just changed completely.
And we ate only plant-based
foods, and only whole foods,
and mostly what we could grow.
And I noticed, we both
noticed, really dramatic,
unexpected to us,
changes in our health.
And I began to wonder
if changing our diet
has made so much
difference to us,
might it be that if
large numbers of people
changed their diets in ways
that made sense to them,
from the standard
American highly processed,
high in sugar, high in saturated
fat, based on animal products
from factory farms
diet, to the kind of way
we were eating, in
some sense, would they
also experience dramatic
health changes, benefits?
And I began to study.
I began to read the
medical literature,
peer-reviewed studies in
all kinds of journals.
And to my amazement, I found
out that, yeah, you know,
there is a lot that
has been learned.
The public doesn't know it.
But if you know
where to look for it,
you can discover that there have
been very reputable studies,
very convincing studies,
showing that this kind of change
will produce this kind of a
result in almost every case,
predictably, reliably.
That we weren't
just an anomaly, we
were actually an
example of something
that I wanted other
people to know about.
I had not been healthy
in my childhood.
I had had the polio.
And there were other problems
that I'd had as well.
And I had been a
pretty frail kid,
with pictures on my childhood
bedroom wall of sports stars who
were fit, and vital,
and powerful, which
I wasn't, but wanted to be.
And now I was becoming
that way, and loving it,
and wanted the world to know
if, in fact, this wasn't
just idiosyncratic to us.
And I was beginning
to learn it was not.
It was in fact something
that a lot of people
could benefit from.
It's not me.
I'm just a voice for something
that's happening here.
I get to be that voice.
And we get to be,
we, we, we get to be
part of this wave of
awakening that's taking place.
And it's changing lives.
And those lives that are changed
become healthier as a result.
They become more
environmentally integrated.
So people are living more
eco responsible lives,
eco sensitive lives,
eco aware lives.
And they're becoming
healthier and more vital.
Their rates of heart
disease, and cancer,
and diabetes, and dementia
are dropping precipitously.
They're feeling better.
They have more energy
to do good things with,
to love the people they love
with their whole hearts,
to do what they really want
to do in their lives, fully
and beautifully.
And we're sparing animals.
We're taking some
of the demand away,
that's feeding
these factory farms.